---
layout: post
title: What We're Asking For
author: Matt Amos
---

The OpenStreetMap project is a global community of dedicated and
resourceful people, giving their time to make the best map of the
world. Those mappers' contributions are the largest part of the
project. However, there are some small additional things such as
having a shared repository to upload their contributions to, services
to help them make the map and talk to each other. We are asking for
donations to keep these services running and improve them, so that
everyone else can continue making an amazing map.

## Secondary database server

The secondary database server, [until recently][1] the primary, has
filled up almost all of its available disk space --- which is great,
because it's filling up with awesome mapping data generated by the
many thousands of dedicated contributors world-wide. We want to be
able to continue to store that growing set of data, and run the
website and API on it.

At the moment, the disks on that machine are configured in a
[high performance][2] setup and we will try to make some space
available by reconfiguring in a [slightly lower perfomance][3]
setup. This may mean slower queries to the secondary machine, and
worse API performance. This would be even worse, should the primary
server fail and all the website and API database queries move to the
secondary. We don't want the site and API to be slower --- we want a
great experience for those dedicated contributors.

To avoid this, it would be better to have a machine closer in
[specification][4] and performance to the primary database server in
case it is necessary to fail over to it. 

## Tile rendering servers

#### Primary

The primary tile rendering machine is also quickly filling up the disk
space available to it --- which is also great, as it's filling with
the detailed geometries produced all the time by the global
community.

We want to be able to continue to serve up minutely-updated tiles to
everyone who is helping make OpenStreetMap more complete and more
detailed --- or even just looking around. Unfortunately, this machine
is already stuffed full of high performance, high capacity disks,
which means we need to look at replacing it with something more modern
and larger.

#### Secondary

The secondary machine is going flat-out and the bottleneck is the
transfer of data to and from the disks. The machine could keep the
tiles more up-to-date if we removed that bottleneck, which means
upgrading the RAID controller and adding a mirror disk for the main
database.

## Imagery server

We know that out-of-copyright (OOC) maps and aerial imagery are both
very useful sources for mapping activities, and we're not happy that
the machine which used to serve this data is currently down. The
reason is that the large external disk arrays used to store the
imagery are very old and consume too much power for the home they are
in while our friends at UCL re-build the building which used to be
their home.

To fix this, we can get a smaller, more modern and more power
efficient server to serve that data, and get this service back online
where it's useful to everyone.

(Side note: is it worth / possible looking at dumping the projected
images on S3?)

## Services machine replica

The "services" machine currently runs a mix of stuff, including the
planet download site, backups and the internal configuration
server. All of these are also backed-up remotely, for safety. However,
it would take some time to recover those files from a remote backup,
simply due to the greater bandwidth within the server room. We would
like to have a "live" backup of this machine to minimise any downtime
when the primary machine, or the site it's hosted at, aren't
available.

## Consumables

Sadly, nothing lasts forever. And hard disks, SSDs, RAID controller
batteries, PSUs, fans, cables and many other computer components don't
even come close! Every year, we replace many of these items which have
failed or come to the end of their lives. Many are replaced under
warranty, but we still have to spend money on replacing or fixing
those which are out of warranty or not covered.

[1]: https://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/October_2014_server_maintenance
[2]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nested_RAID_levels#RAID_1.2B0
[3]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_RAID_levels#RAID_6
[4]: http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Servers/katla
